>>DAVID WILCOCK:
I'm David Wilcock,
and welcome to "Disclosure."
In this episode, we have a
very intriguing interview
with Graham Hancock that
is also very controversial.
Graham Hancock, of course,
is the award-winning author
of "The Fingerprints of the
Gods," "Sign and the Seal,"
many other books that we
discussed throughout the time
that I have interviewed
him for our program.
And in this episode, we get into
some of the most controversial
material of all.
For starters, we begin talking
about DMT and the pineal gland,
and that's controversial
enough in and of itself
because there seems to be a
very intrinsic fear of any usage
of psychedelics in our society.
But part of that might be that
if you did decide to use them,
you start to see reality
in a different way.
You may even see that reality
is like a grocery store,
and what everybody believes
to be absolute truth is simply
one choice that's available
to you on the shelves.
And there are other
choices that we're not
usually aware of
that are in some ways
equally as real and as palpable
as what we now know to be true.
One of the most
controversial things
that Graham says in
this episode is the idea
that the Father God-- Yahweh
in the Old Testament--
is in fact a negative entity
masquerading as positive.
This is exactly what it says
in the Law of One series, which
is the philosophical basis of
all the work that I've done.
And it was quite surprising to
hear Graham so confidently come
out with the same thing
based upon actually
reading what Yahweh says
in the Old Testament
and what he wants.
Yahweh is a nasty entity.
That's Graham's point.
It's very uncomfortable
because we've
been taught to believe
in the institutions
and trust that everything that
the Bible says must be correct
and it must be good,
when in fact Yahweh
says he's a jealous god,
he's a vengeful god,
he asks people to commit
murders in his name,
he's asking that all the
firstborn be murdered.
There's some really, really
nasty stuff with Yahweh.
And the Law of One says
that the original Yahweh was
a positive entity,
and that contact
occurred before most of the
books of the Old Testament
were written.
And then that entity
during the time of Moses
got replaced by a
negative entity.
And the reason why
this happened was
that Moses was
doing psychic parlor
tricks for everybody who asked
him to show them a miracle.
And as a result of this and
other moral and ethical lapses,
Moses ended up making
contact with the wrong side
of the fence, and
he had to be allowed
to do that because of the
way the game is played.
So in a sense, Moses
accrued great karma
by bringing in such things as
the Ten Commandments, which
say, thou shalt not do this
or thou shalt not do that.
That is actually the actions
of a negative entity.
A positive entity is going
to say, if you do this,
then this will happen.
If you do that, then
that will happen.
Another key teaching
that has been suppressed
by the Roman government that
put together the New Testament
is reincarnation.
And so we're going to
discuss in this episode
how reincarnation
leads to this idea
that you have to
pay for what you
do in later lifetimes, which
means people would be less
likely to support the actions
of a totalitarian government
that encourages them
to go and kill people
if they were to find out that
any atrocities they commit
are things they're going to have
to pay for in later lifetimes.
So there's this and
a whole lot more
coming up in this
episode of "Disclosure"
with Graham Hancock.
Check it out.
So these metaphysical
entities are showing up all
over the world.
And people are, in
your theory, seeing
something that's
real but maybe just
on a different layer of reality.
>>GRAHAM HANCOCK: Exactly.
Consciousness is
the key, and that
what we need to function day
to day in the material world
is what I call the
alert problem solving
state of consciousness--
which is a very
good state of consciousness.
And you know, when I
get in an airplane,
I would like my pilot to be
in an alert problem solving
state of consciousness.
It has its place, but it's not
the only state of consciousness
that we human beings
are capable of.
And it's possible to
radically alter consciousness.
And shamans down the
ages have developed
a whole range of techniques.
Quite a number of them involve
visionary plants and substances
like DMT, which is the active
ingredient of ayahuasca
or psilocybin mushrooms used
in shamanistic ceremonies
all around the world.
Other techniques don't
involve plant agencies.
They involve rhythmic drumming,
certain forms of dance.
The Kalahari Bushmen dance
around a fire for 24 hours
till they sense their
spirits leaving their bodies.
The point is however
you get there
that in order to encounter these
entities directly and easily
and pretty much on
call is you have
to get into an altered state of
consciousness, a trance state.
>>DAVID: Our body does
make DMT itself, right?
>>HANCOCK: Our body makes DMT.
And medical science has not
been able to explain why.
The evidence is honing
in more and more that DMT
is made in the pineal gland.
This was a theory a decade ago.
Rick Strassman was
the first person
to propose-- he's a psychiatrist
at the University of New
Mexico-- was the first
person to propose that DMT
is made in the pineal gland.
New research done by the
Cottonwood Foundation
in New Mexico has
increasingly confirmed that.
They found, for example, DMT
in the pineal glands of rats.
And the next-- it's not
a big jump from there
to say that's likely where it's
made in human beings as well.
And the pineal
gland is, of course,
a very interesting gland.
It's the third eye.
In evolutionary,
more simple animals,
it actually has a lens,
a cornea, and a retina.
In human beings, it's descended
deeper into the brain.
It's not reactive to light
anymore in the way that it was.
But maybe what
it's doing-- maybe
DMT is the lens of
our pineal gland,
allowing us to see
wider areas of reality
than are normally
accessible to our senses.
This is where we have
to challenge the model
that consciousness is simply
an artifact of the brain,
made by the brain the way
a generator makes electricity.
Equally possible is that the
relationship between the brain
and consciousness is more like
the relationship between a TV
signal and a TV set.
There's nothing we
can do-- I'm not
saying that that's what it is.
I'm using that as an analogy
to suggest that consciousness
may not actually be manufactured
by the brain, just in the way
that the TV signal is not
manufactured by the TV set.
But the TV signal manifests--
the TV set allows that signal
to manifest in the picture and
sound and so on and so forth.
Maybe that's what
consciousness is.
It's a signal which our
brains are transceiving.
And therefore, if that
were the case, then
it would be possible
to alter the receiver
wavelength of the brain.
And suddenly, all
kind of channels
that you couldn't
pick up when you're
tuned into channel normal
would become accessible to you.
And those channels
would be equally real.
And that is the
suggestion of what
is going on with altered
states of consciousness,
that these visions which are
astonishingly trans-personal
and universal and which are
documented in rock and cave art
all around the world,
that these visions are
encounters with
intelligent entities
at other levels of reality.
Now, I'm not denying
the possibility
that we may encounter
those intelligent entities
in physical forms as well.
But one way to encounter
them regularly and reliably
and to communicate
with them is to develop
our science of altered
states of consciousness
to a higher level.
We've been very
resistant to that.
The war on drugs
has made us very
reactive to the idea of
altering consciousness at all.
But it may be
exactly what we need
to do if we're
going to penetrate
the mysteries of existence.
>>DAVID: So let's look at
this, just for a second.
DMT is made by the body.
It's in the pineal
gland very likely.
It's just a few chemical
notches away from melatonin,
and we know the pineal
gland is making melatonin.
Most conventional
scientists would
say that if you take DMT or
a DMT-like substance that
releases that, that the
hallucinations are just
this brain garbage.
It's just static.
It's not useful.
>>HANCOCK: That's what they say.
And that's based on their
model, which is not a fact.
It's based on their
reference frame
that the brain is
making consciousness.
But the moment you realize that
that is a reference frame--
that's not a scientifically
established fact that the brain
is making consciousness.
And indeed, there are
many pieces of evidence
which challenge that fact.
For example, the out-of-body
experience or the near-death
experience-- if we're
flat line on the ECG
and we're still
having experiences,
then for sure the brain is
not making our consciousness.
Our consciousness is
not local to the brain.
It's in some way manifesting
through the brain.
And the existing materialistic
model of brain activity
doesn't do that, which seeks to
reduce these experiences simply
to disturb brain activity.
I think we have to stay
open to the possibility
that something else much
more mysterious is going on
and that shamans, for tens
of thousands of years,
have known this and have
known the ways and the means
to contact those
intelligences beyond.
And then of course we
come into the next issue.
If those intelligences are
real in some way, if they exist
in freestanding other
dimensions or levels of reality
that we can access through
changing our consciousness,
what is it they want
with us, these beings?
What are they doing
with the human race?
Why have they been present
with us for so long?
Do they have our best
interests at heart?
Is it possible that some of
them have our best interests
at heart and others don't?
It was very interesting.
When Rick Strassman's volunteers
at the University of New Mexico
were given intravenous
doses of dimethyltryptamine
and sent on that rocket ship
to the other side of reality
that dimethyltryptamine will
do for you, quite a lot of them
encountered entities who
basically said, hi, guys.
We're so glad you've
discovered this technology.
Now we can communicate
with you more easily.
That actually sends shivers
down my spine a little bit.
It's a very, very strange thing
that more than one volunteer
had that experience.
And again, it
challenges the notion
that these are simply
artifacts of the brain.
Maybe by reaching the receiver
wavelength of the brain,
we're making contact
with other intelligences.
And then, see,
shamans have always
sought to master and
manage those influences.
From the shamanic point of
view, whether we like it or not,
we are influenced by
intelligences that are normally
invisible to our senses.
And what they seek to
do by entering trance
is to negotiate and deal
with those intelligences.
And shamans recognize that
some of those intelligences
are nurturing and positive for
us and seek the best for us.
And some of them are profoundly
negative and dangerous
to humanity.
And better that we recognize
the existence of those entities
and deal with them rather than
stick our heads in the sand
and pretend they don't exist.
>>DAVID: Well,
you basically saw,
like, a whole movie
when you took DMT.
>>HANCOCK: Yeah.
My work with ayahuasca, where
the active ingredient is DMT--
I've also smoked
DMT in the pure form
and had extraordinary
experiences with that.
But with ayahuasca, DMT
is the active ingredient.
Ayahuasca is the vine of souls--
the ancient shamanistic brew
of the Amazon which
we know has been
used by peoples in the
Amazon for thousands
and thousands of years.
Archaeological evidence traces
it back at least 4,000 years
with the specific purpose of
making contact with the spirit
world to bring healing
influences down
to the human plane to
receive inspiration.
Many of the shamans
are painters.
What I received in a series of
ayahuasca sessions in Brazil
back in 2006 or 2007 was
the-- I'm not a painter.
So didn't get
inspiration for painting.
But I got inspiration
to write a novel.
And that normal was my first
novel, called "Entangled."
I don't believe
that I would have
had that creative
impulse if I had not
had that ayahuasca experience.
>>DAVID: It's really
amazing to see
such a prolific documentarian,
nonfiction author who's
all about facts, that your
maiden voyage into fiction,
it just crackles like
a Michener novel.
It's like you had the chops
right out the starting gate.
It's amazing.
>>HANCOCK: Yeah.
I was given a story.
And I'd been honing--
I suppose the one
thing I do is narrative.
I have narrative skills.
And those narrative skills
I was able to bring to bear
on the writing of the novel.
And "Entangled"
is my first novel,
but subsequently I've
written the first two volumes
of a trilogy of novels
called "War God," which
is about the Spanish
conquest of Mexico.
And what is at
the heart, what is
in common between "Entangled"
and the "War God" series
is the notion that
spiritual forces are
at work behind history,
that these entities that
are encountered in altered
states of consciousness
are indeed very real
and that some of them
work for the benefit of
mankind, and some of them
work to deviate
us from our path.
Our path is the path
of spiritual ascension,
that we are here
to learn and grow
and to become beings of light.
That's what we're
meant to do here.
But there are dark, malign,
and maleficent entities
in the beyond who seek to
block us and prevent us
from achieving that path.
And so in "War
God," for example--
the first volume is called
"War God: Nights of the Witch."
The second volume,
published October 2014
is called "War God: Return
of the Plumed Serpent."
In "War God," Moctezuma,
the Aztec emperor,
encounters regularly the
entity that the Aztecs called
hummingbird,
Huitzilopochtli-- the
hummingbird at the
left hand of the sun.
He was their god of war.
And he is constantly-- and this
is not something I'm making up.
The historical
documents are clear
that Moctezuma felt himself to
be in contact with this entity
who is demonic in every
aspect of his behavior
and who urges and
encourages Moctezuma
to ever more horrific
acts of human sacrifice
and mass, mass murder
of subject populations.
And at the same time,
Cortes, Hernan Cortes,
the conquistador, in dreams
is encountering an entity
that he construes
as Saint Peter.
And again, this is based
on historical facts.
And Cortes felt he had a special
relationship with Saint Peter
since his childhood.
And what I'm
suggesting in the novel
is that actually
the same demon who
appears to Moctezuma
as the war god takes
on the disguise of Saint Peter
and appears to Cortes as Saint
Peter and plays these
two men like puppets
to maximize human misery
in the land of Mexico.
And that event is
the Spanish conquest
of Mexico, which changed the
whole story of the world.
And almost every negative thing
in international relations--
whether it was Colonialism,
whether it was slavery--
followed from those events of
the Spanish conquest of Mexico.
If Moctezuma had been a
different kind of character,
if he had behaved in a
loving and positive way
towards his neighbors,
if he had not
been hated by his
neighbors, Cortes
would never have succeeded
in overthrowing him.
So what I'm
suggesting is that we
need to look for the spiritual
forces at work behind history,
not dismiss those as fantasies
or figments of the imagination,
but understand that
we are being played
by vastly intelligent
and dangerous beings
and that what we have
to do is to nurture
the light within ourselves
and to manifest and grow that.
And every minute of every
day, we human beings
are confronted by choices.
And those choices are always
choices between dark and light.
They may be very small scale,
or they may be very large scale,
but there are always choices.
We have to be careful
to choose the light
and to resist the
temptation of the dark side.
And it's this that I'm
exploring in my novels.
And I feel that
fiction is a better way
to explore those
extraordinary ideas, that you
can get inside the heads
of characters in a way
that you can't in nonfiction.
It's not that I've
given up nonfiction.
I'm still very much a
writer of nonfiction.
But I'm enjoying this
exploration of the novel
as a means of putting
extraordinary ideas wrapped up
in fast-moving stories in
front of my readers as well.
>>DAVID: Well, there's
a common shamanic belief
that there are these
negative entities.
And in Gnosticism and--
>>HANCOCK: Gnosticism is such
an important area of study.
And I first got
into Gnosticism back
in the '90s when I wrote
my half of a book that's
now called "The Master Game."
It was originally
titled "Talisman."
My coauthor was Robert Bauval.
And I focused very much on
Gnosticism in that book.
And Gnosticism is an
astonishing antidote
to the mental
conditioning that we
have been subjected to in
world society for hundreds
and hundreds of years.
And Gnosticism is very
disturbing to read.
If you go back-- you
see, for a long time
we only knew about
the Gnostic ideas
from the Christians who
had persecuted them.
The Gnostics were
amongst the first people
to be burned at the stake
back 400 years after Christ.
It was Christians who were
doing that persecution.
And then they said, this is--
>>DAVID: On behalf of
the Roman government.
>>HANCOCK: On behalf of
Because that's when
Christianity, in my opinion,
took the wrong path, when it
pulled on the jackboot of Rome
and became the religion
of the Roman state,
the single most
terrifying militaristic
state that's ever been
known in human history.
Christianity became the
religion of that state.
>>DAVID: It's
imperial Christianity.
>>HANCOCK: Imperial
Christianity.
And the first people
they started to persecute
were the Gnostics, because the
Gnostics-- and this is an idea
that many who are
committed to Christianity
will find repulsive or
very difficult to accept.
The Gnostics said that
the entity that we
call God-- Jehovah, as he
is in the Old Testament,
the Muslims call him Allah,
it's the same entity, the God
of Abraham-- that this entity--
the God of Judaism as well,
of course, Jehovah, God
of Judaism, Christianity,
and Islam, goes by
different names,
he's the same entity-- that
this entity isn't a god at all
from the Gnostic point of view.
From the Gnostic point of view,
the simple word to describe him
is a demon.
He's a demon.
And what he's done is
he has convinced mankind
that he is God.
And he wants us to-- because
he's really a demon, not a god
at all-- he wants to
bring out the worst in us.
He wants us to
behave in ways that
cause fear and terror
and hatred and division
because that's
what he thrives on.
That's what he grows on.
He grows on the manipulation
of hatred in humanity.
And if you look at the
statements and the actions
of the God of the Old
Testament, he is not a nice guy.
The stuff he does, the mass
murders that he's responsible
for, the incitement that he
delivers to his followers
to engage in horrific acts
occurs again and again.
And you have to ask yourself,
can this be a good thing?
Can this be a good
thing when he's
telling us to go off and commit
acts of murder in his name?
And what I often
say is, when you
look at the three mainstream
monotheistic faiths,
all of them talk the
talk of peace and love.
But actually, if you look
at the walk they walk,
it's a walk of hatred
and fear and suspicion.
And it seems to me that
there's a real chance
that the Gnostics were right and
that the entity-- that we have
been hoodwinked by a
supernatural entity,
if you like, by a
demonic entity who
has persuaded us that he is God
and made us act in his names.
The Crusades, the religious
wars, the terrible divisions,
the persecutions of
members of other faiths
that have occurred--
all of that is not
the action of a
good and loving God.
All of that is the
action of a demon.
And that's what the
Gnostics said he was.
They called him the demiurge.
And they felt that he
had representatives
in the human race who disguised
themselves as human beings, who
were called archons, whose sole
task was to mislead us further
down the path of darkness and
take us away so that we would
never realize the divine
spark within ourselves
and that a grand cosmic game
is being played out here,
of which the human
race is the fulcrum.
And the decisions that we make
and the choices that we make
are not only important
to us but are
important to the whole cosmos.
This is the center
of the Gnostic idea.
It was a very powerful idea.
And I think it's an idea that
merits further exploration.
>>DAVID: Well, it
couldn't be more different
what Jesus is saying and his
approach towards spirituality,
and then what he would call the
father that he's operating on.
There's virtually no
relationship between--
>>HANCOCK: There's
no relationship.
>>DAVID: --that and Jehovah.
>>HANCOCK: And the Gnostics saw
Christ as a Gnostic teacher.
They were the
original Christians.
The Gnostics were the
But their religion was hijacked
by this militaristic force
and by this demonic entity.
The Gnostics were the
original Christians.
And they felt that their
role was to nurture
the divine spark in humanity.
And that's what
Christ came to do.
He came to nurture the
divine spark in man.
And by a very clever trick,
that was hijacked and turned
into something completely
opposite from what it
was originally intended to be.
>>DAVID: Well, you
must be familiar
with the works of Origen,
like "De Principiis."
>>HANCOCK: Yes, yes.
>>DAVID: And he claims
that Saint Peter spoke
to Saint Clement of Alexandria
and that he got teachings
from Saint Clement, and that
the biggest secret teaching
of Jesus was reincarnation.
>>HANCOCK: Right, exactly.
Which Christianity now denies.
>>DAVID: Right.
And so reincarnation
doesn't work
when you're trying to set
up an imperial religion--
>>HANCOCK: No, not at all.
>>DAVID: --where you're going
to burn in hell forever if you
don't pay taxes and kill the
enemy that your government
dislikes.
>>HANCOCK: Exactly.
They edited reincarnation
out of the story.
And of course,
reincarnation implies
that we do have to take
account of the lives we live,
because the lives we live
will have a consequence
upon our next life.
It makes us think very
carefully about what we do.
Those horrendous acts that the
state wants us to carry out
might be very bad for our souls,
and we might resist doing them.
So it's a very subversive
teaching, reincarnation.
And that's why it
was edited out.
And indeed, this Gnostic
idea of this demonic demiurge
misleading mankind and his human
agents, or agents in human form
called the archons,
it's easy to see who
they are in the world today.
The state, the
instruments of state,
the governments that seek to
divide us from one another
and are constantly manipulating
and creating new wars,
making us terribly afraid
of this or that person
or this or that so-called enemy,
the big corporations, they're
all part of this game.
The big media, they're
all part of this game
of pushing our buttons to stop
us thinking for ourselves.
>>DAVID: Well, and
you started out--
you're a Pulitzer
Prize winning writer.
>>HANCOCK: No, I never
won a Pulitzer Prize.
>>DAVID: Oh, you
didn't win a Pulitzer?
Oh, I thought you did.
>>HANCOCK: No, no, no.
>>DAVID: Well, it sounds good.
>>HANCOCK: It does.
It does.
>>DAVID: You should have.
>>HANCOCK: Thank you.
>>DAVID: "Lords of Poverty,"
you start out on the mainstream
track.
>>HANCOCK: I did get
an HL Mencken Award
for "Lords of Poverty."
>>DAVID: HL Mencken, OK.
So you start out on
a mainstream track,
and you start to find out that
aid to Third World countries
is being systematically
thwarted.
So let's talk about
that, because people
don't realize that you
started out as a mainstream--
>>HANCOCK: I was a
mainstream journalist.
>>DAVID: --academic.
>>HANCOCK: I worked
for The Economist.
I was the East Africa
Correspondent of The Economist,
and I was reporting mainstream
news and current affairs.
There was a time in my life
when I used to buy four
or six newspapers
a day, you know.
Current affairs
was central to me.
And I wrote a series of books
as a current affairs journalist,
of which the best known,
published in 1989,
was called "Lords of Poverty."
And that was a critique
of foreign aid.
At that point,
criticizing foreign aid
was like criticizing motherhood.
One wasn't supposed to do that.
It was supposed to
be automatically
a good thing, this generosity
to give to the poor.
But what I found from my
years of visiting aid projects
as a journalist, from
tramping around the world
and looking at
the effects of aid
was that it is not
a good thing at all,
that it is a control system.
And as been rightly
quipped, what aid
is is taking from the
poor in rich countries
to give to the rich
in poor countries.
It isn't really about
helping the poor at all.
It's about empowering the
elites in the societies that
receive aid.
And most people who pay for
aid through their tax dollar
would not wish to empower elites
in this or that developing
country.
They would wish the money
to go directly to the poor
and to help the poor.
Well, it doesn't.
And it manifests through
gigantic aid projects.
And I suppose it
was the first time
that I began to really question
the existing order of things.
And that's what's in common
between "Lords of Poverty"
and my later books on
historical mysteries,
is that they are taking
a radical perspective
on what is thought to be the
established order of things.
>>DAVID: Well, that could
still-- questioning foreign aid
even now could still be seen
as pretty radical and a slap
in the face to the system.
>>HANCOCK: Because
foreign aid, the amount
of dollars going in
foreign aid has continued
to grow every year, and
every developed country
is giving more and
more, and we're
told this is a good thing.
I say it's a really bad thing.
Look, I mean, America
never got rich
because people gave America aid.
America made itself
a prosperous country
through its own efforts.
Nobody aided America to do that.
So why should we think that
giving aid to other countries
is going to make them rich?
That's not the way it's done.
>>DAVID: If you look
at what happened
in America with the
Native Americans,
Native Americans are now
being kept on reservations,
and they're given a
stipend from the time
that they become 18 that
pays for all their bills.
It is like the
welfare state concept.
If you put people
on welfare, you
remove the incentive for them--
>>HANCOCK: You completely
remove the incentive.
>>DAVID: --to want
to do anything else.
>>HANCOCK: Yes.
And you do something
worse than that.
You take away from them their
responsibility over themselves.
That's what we need
as human beings.
That's part of our
growth process.
This is my belief system.
I firmly believe
that's why we're here.
We're here to learn
and grow and develop.
And part of that is taking
responsibility for oneself.
And any institution
that separates us
from sovereignty over ourselves
and from responsibility
over ourselves is not
doing us any favors.
They're doing us a disservice,
a very severe disservice,
and preventing our
growth as spirits.
>>DAVID: So what was the
response to "Lords of Poverty"?
Did anything change
as a result of that?
>>HANCOCK: No.
Nothing changed.
I mean, these are
big institutions.
I was told that people
at the World Bank
used to actually read it
in brown paper wrappers.
>>DAVID: Like a whisky bottle.
>>HANCOCK: Yeah.
It was a book that
made them very annoyed,
but at the same time, they
felt they needed to read it.
No.
These institutions
are too big to change.
What I hope I did do
was shine some light
on the underbelly of foreign
aid and to show what a disaster
it is and how little
it has achieved
and what a waste of money
it is in every possible way.
Just down at that simple
level, there's so much
better things that could
be done with that money
than is being done
than channeling
into these huge projects
which empower bureaucracies.
They empower the aid giver
and the aid receiver,
the institutions.
>>DAVID: Do you
think that it also
creates a method
by which people can
be lured into thinking that the
problem is being dealt with?
>>HANCOCK: Absolutely.
It is exactly doing that.
It is saying, all those
problems out there in the world,
this is our way of
solving those problems.
This is our contribution.
We're doing something about
it, so you can relax, guys.
Don't worry.
No, we can't relax.
>>DAVID: And its
low-lying political fruit.
If you want to win
an election, you
say, oh, look at
what we're doing.
Look at the aid
programs we've started.
We're building communities
in Zimbabwe, and we're--
>>HANCOCK: Exactly.
And who can be against that?
This is the whole problem.
It's an easy answer to
the problems of the world.
And it isn't solving
any of those problems.
It's making them worse.
Nothing has got better in 50,
60, 70 years of aid giving.
Nothing.
>>DAVID: So these warlords
end up basically intercepting
the money before it actually--
>>HANCOCK: Yes, they
intercepted, they control it,
and it empowers them.
It makes them more powerful.
>>DAVID: So they
become more brutal,
and the dictatorship
gets even worse.
>>HANCOCK: Yeah.
And we, the taxpayers in the
West, are paying for that.
And that's a bad deal-- for
us and for the people who
are really meant to be
benefiting from our generosity.
>>DAVID: So this
starts to get over
to the John Perkins side of
things, "The Economic Hit Man."
>>HANCOCK: I suppose so, yeah.
>>DAVID: Where
ultimately the aid
is being diverted into a puppet
dictatorship that is actually
run by the cabal,
the European powers.
>>HANCOCK: It's a system
of global control.
That's what aid's about.
It's about keeping
power in a few hands.
The same hands that are
controlling us here in the West
are also controlling all
the developing countries.
And they're doing
so-- aid is a key tool
in that process of control.
It's key to that.
>>DAVID: It's sophisticated
money-laundering, basically.
>>HANCOCK: Undoubtedly the case.
And control.
It allows those
elite individuals
who run our societies to
run other societies as well.
And guess what, they don't
have to pay for it themselves.
We the taxpayer pay for it.
>>DAVID: As sick and as crazy as
these people in the cabal are,
you have to admire them.
They created this
system of global control
through allegedly humanitarian
aid relief programs.
And better, they get
us to pay for it.
These are unsettling
implications,
but what they are doing is they
are shedding light on things
that we need to know.
This is all part of
the disclosure process,
and it is fascinating that
Graham Hancock started out
doing groundbreaking
work in exposing
the problems in our
society and the things that
are going wrong so
that he can steer us
towards the things
that are going right.
We have other episodes
of Graham Hancock and me
talking coming up, where we
get into many other fascinating
subjects.
And that is coming up in future
episodes of our ancient history
miniseries here on "Disclosure."
Coming up in the next
episode is part two,
the final section of my epic
interview with Laird Scranton.
And in this episode, I challenge
him based upon the exact things
that his skeptics and his
haters have said in the Amazon
comments section for his book.
How is he going to
hold up under fire?
Let's find out, because his
information is so wide-ranging
that if he can come back
swinging and have good answers
to his critics, then we
have to seriously consider
that what he is telling
us may be in fact correct.
And that means that
ancient civilizations
may have been seeded here
by extraterrestrial life who
gave us a unified
cosmology showing
how our own lives and
the lives of nature as we
know it is fundamentally
interconnected with the cosmos
itself.
That's coming up next
time on "Disclosure."
I'm your host, David Wilcock,
and I thank you for watching.